#labels SVN,Subversion,Help
#How to check out, check in, and generally use SVN.

= Introduction =

Subversion is a system of managing code.  Because this programming team has many members, simply saving code to a central computer or emailing code to each other is not optimal -- there is too much opportunity for confusion, and too high of a chance that we may simply get in each other's way and make programming harder.

For that reason, we are using Google code, which provides a version control system called *Subversion, or SVN for short*.  This system comprises of two parts - server-side and client side.  Google Code manages the server-side; it keeps a central, canonical copy of the code.  All the code hosted by Google should be treated as the main code to refer too. This collection of code is called the *repository*.

In order to access, download, and check-in code, you need a server side program.  I am using *RapidSVN*, found here: http://rapidsvn.tigris.org/ (portable version: http://portableapps.com/node/13470 ) to access the code.  There are other clients available, although you will have to find instructions on your own.  You use the clint primarily to download and upload files and code, and you edit files or create folders using your normal tools.

= How to use RapidSVN =

_If at any point, the program asks for a password, see the bottom._

1 Download the program.
  Main:  http://rapidsvn.tigris.org/

  Portable:  http://portableapps.com/node/13470
2 Create a folder
  First, open 'My Documents' and create a folder somewhere.  Name it something like 'SVN' or 'Robotics code'.  *This folder is your working copy* - you will download the latest code here.
3 Access the repository
  Click 'Bookmarks' and click 'Add Existing Repository...'
  Type in 'https://skyline-robotics.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/' for the URL, then click OK.
  To the left in the Bookmarks pane, you should see a new item with the same URL.  Click on it, and if it asks you about the SLL certificate, press either Permanently or Temporarily.
4 Check out a copy.
  To be able to open and edit files, you need to check out a copy from the Googlecode repository.  Right-click it, and click 'Checkout New Working Copy'.  Keep the URL the same, and under 'Destination Directory' press the '...' button to browse to the folder you created earlier.  Press OK.
5 Editing
  In the left Bookmark pane, you should see two items now - the Googlecode URL and your folder.  Click on My Documents, browse over to your folder.  Your folder should be updated with the items from the repository.  Create and edit files at your whim.  After you are done, navigate to the item on the right hand pane.  For every new file or every file edited, you should see a small question mark.  Right click, and click 'Add'.
6 Checking in
  After you are done, right-click your folder in the left Bookmark pane (after adding all new changes) and click 'Update'.  After that, right-click again and press 'Commit'.

Every time you want the latest version, use Update and every time you want to add your code, use Commit.

_If a password is required to either check out or commit, log in to your Google account, press the 'Source' tab on this website near the top, press browse, and click the link that will generate your Googlecode password.  The password should be a string of pseudo-random numbers and letters._